README.md, before:

# Direct 2D N-body simulation

Written in C, built with Vulkan, shown on screen with [raylib](https://github.com/raysan5/raylib).

## Build and run

### Build prerequisites

1. C compiler that supports C99 standard; TCC works if you provide raylib externally.
   OpenMP support is optional, but it does drastically improve the speed of CPU simulation.
2. CMake version 3.20 or later.
3. Vulkan SDK, including `glslc` and validation layers. Only Vulkan 1.0 features are used.

Target `rag-bench` uses Linux-only monotonic clock and therefore is not available on other platforms.

### How to build

Like any other CMake project.

### How to run

1. Make sure that the compiled shader is located at `./shader/body_cs.spv`.
2. Run `rag`.

### What to do?

Press some buttons:

* `Q` or `ESC` to quit
* `SPACE` to pause/unpause
* `TAB` to switch between CPU and GPU simulation
* `LEFT` to decrease simulation speed (fewer updates per second)
* `RIGHT` to increase simulation speed (more updates per second)
* `UP` to increase simulation step (less accurate, simulation speeds up)
* `DOWN` to decrease simulation step (more accurate, simulation slows down)

## TODO list

- [ ] Select optimal VkPhysicalDevice, not the first one in the list
- [ ] Switch to SDL and write Vulkan renderer so that particle data never has to leave GPU
- [ ] Also moving viewport
- [ ] Allow chaining multiple pipeline calls in a single command buffer
- [ ] Allow setting simulation parameters through command line arguments

Done:

- [x] Make GPU simulation respect simulation step change
- [x] Use specialization constants to make sure CPU and GPU simulations always have the same parameters
- [x] Add pushing force which is stronger than gravity at short distances
- [x] Make GPU buffers device-local for performance improvements

Commit message:

World_UpdateVK can now chain multiple pipeline dispatches in a single command buffer

README.md, after:

# Direct 2D N-body simulation

Written in C, built with Vulkan, shown on screen with [raylib](https://github.com/raysan5/raylib).

## Build and run

### Build prerequisites

1. C compiler that supports C99 standard; TCC works if you provide raylib externally.
   OpenMP support is optional, but it does drastically improve the speed of CPU simulation.
2. CMake version 3.20 or later.
3. Vulkan SDK, including `glslc` and validation layers. Only Vulkan 1.0 features are used.

Target `rag-bench` uses Linux-only monotonic clock and therefore is not available on other platforms.

### How to build

Like any other CMake project.

### How to run

1. Make sure that the compiled shader is located at `./shader/body_cs.spv`.
2. Run `rag`.

### What to do?

Press some buttons:

* `Q` or `ESC` to quit
* `SPACE` to pause/unpause
* `TAB` to switch between CPU and GPU simulation
* `LEFT` to decrease simulation speed (fewer updates per second)
* `RIGHT` to increase simulation speed (more updates per second)
* `UP` to increase simulation step (less accurate, simulation speeds up)
* `DOWN` to decrease simulation step (more accurate, simulation slows down)

## TODO list

- [ ] Select optimal VkPhysicalDevice, not the first one in the list
- [ ] Switch to SDL and write Vulkan renderer so that particle data never has to leave GPU
- [ ] Also moving viewport
- [ ] Allow setting simulation parameters through command line arguments

Done:

- [x] Make GPU simulation respect simulation step change
- [x] Use specialization constants to make sure CPU and GPU simulations always have the same parameters
- [x] Add pushing force which is stronger than gravity at short distances
- [x] Make GPU buffers device-local for performance improvements
- [x] Allow performing multiple updates in a single World_UpdateVK call by chaining pipeline dispatches
